---
layout: post
title: "NASPT on Windows Server 2008 rc2"
category: posts
---

## NASPT

[NASPT](http://www.intel.com/products/server/storage/NAS_Perf_Toolkit.htm)
is a toolkit used to measure performance for basic filesystem use cases. These 
test cases range from HD video playback, to large directory structure transfers.

The toolkit is a little dated, no longer supported by Intel, and
incompatible with recent operating systems. This aside, it still remains a
staplehold among filesystem benchmarks (somewhat to my behest). The 
toolkit is still used on many > XP systems, and in my case Windows 
Server 2008 rc2 (x86_64). NASPT "runs on a 32-bit client version of Windows XP or Windows 
Vista," and a target NAS appliance "may run any operating system." Which 
makes it ideal for the average fellow looking to get a benchmark comparable 
against many published numbers.

The goal of this post is not to give a tutorial for NASPT, but rather outline 
some problems that I faced on Windows Server 2008 rc2 and how to overcome them.

## First Things First

* Get your system up to date! 

My installation didn't have the
[Application Compatibility Toolkit](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/dd562082(v=vs.85).aspx)
that is required for NASPT to run. My symptom was pretty basic, 
installation would get to the last bit, but because of registry 
incompatibilities, bail out and remove itself. By installing all the latest
updates, the ACT was added, and I could install NASPT.

* Tinker with the binary execution compatibility options

Wherever you choose, be it the binary itself, or the desktop icon
the installation generated, try configuring it to run in compatibility
mode for Windows XP. I had some initial problems getting it up and going,
but ultimately did not have to do anything special. 

## Dealing with NASPT limitations

NASPT does a series of system checks when it starts up, first for OS
compatibility. This, well, you're going to fail with a warning, there is
just no getting around it. NASPT was not meant to run on anything but 
32 bit Windows XP or vista. I can't claim to know the ramification of
ignoring this is, but only that I've seen far to many a colleague ignore
this to think that all benchmarks are on supported system. 

One reason for this is that later versions of Windows have heavily
improved SMB client software. Many of the use cases and numbers published
are based around NAS appliance performance. The OS, in my experience, 
makes a key difference in benchmark numbers produced.

The real problem comes in with a memory check for < 2GB. The rationale
is that systems with greater than 2GB heavily cache the utilities 
filesystem activity. This causes skewed results, often creating output
that more represents transferring files to RAM than to disk.

If you find yourself in a situation where your server cannot be downgraded,
or you don't have extra RAM of the 1GB per stick variety, you're in luck.
Windows has a feature that allows one to limit the available system memory.

This (in Server 2008) is referred to as removememory in the Boot Manager
entry.

## Reducing System RAM for NASPT

The goal being limiting system RAM to 2GB, fire up a cmd prompt with 
administrative privileges.

What we are going to do is edit our "{current}" with
[BCDEdit](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc709667(v=ws.10).aspx)
to add an option for 'removememory'. What this does is subtract the 
given amount of memory from available system memory at boot. From NASPT's
perspective, it and the target filesystem will only have 2GB to work with.

On my system I had 8GB of RAM, so I set my removememory option to 6144MB\:

	C:\Windows\System32> 
	C:\Windows\system32> bcdedit /set {current} removememory 6144
	

Then rebooted my system to let the change take effect. Assuming you brought
your system under 2GB of memory, you should be all set. 

I'm sure there are a million other tweakables, but I thought I'd share
the problems I had over the past few days while using NASPT at work.