---
layout: post
title: Epicurus and Death
category: posts
---

This was a response I felt worth sharing from my philosophy course, it covers
the historic philsopher Epicurus' view of death. I use a little funny wording
in some areas, this may be because I try to use the same terminology as is
it observed in a more philosophical setting; I don't just use flashy 
language for verbosity in explanation.

## Q: Why, according to Epicurus, ought we not to fear death?
To understand why Epicurus would say we ought to not fear death, we must first build a base understanding of him. He believed that our lives were neither ours nor entirely not ours. Accompanying this, he postulates that the end of our lives is merely the end of all our actions. Further, he believes that at this end we shall be free of pain and fear; our souls will reach a quelled state of inaction. This state in death leaves one with a lack of all sensation and no sentience.

## Postulation of Postmortem
If we stick to this postulation that in death one cannot feel nor think, then we should also say that we have reached a state of annihilation. That is, we will simply cease to have pain of the body or of the soul. Without any ability to sense or have sentience, past the point of death there is nothing that could cause us pain or suffering, as there is in a sense no 'us'. All of good, evil, happiness, and sadness require the capacity of sensation or sentience, something not present in death.

## A State of Being
Taking another perspective, when one is alive, they are not in a state of death. We do not exist in death, and so death does not concern the dead. Because death does not bring harm, but instead the lack of all pain or suffering, fearing or having angst over death is an empty pain. Thusly, death does not concern the living, and as long as we are alive, we are by definition not dead. Finally ones own death should be considered, to those who understand it, as nothing. 