---
layout: post
title: "Memo: The Emerald Ash Borer"
categroy: posts
comments: true
---

Up until now I'v omitted the various Science Writing course memos I've had to
write. This will be an exception, as it at least opens up a train of thought 
on a provocative topic that I will be researching in the future. I hope that
by reading this, you'll get a scope of the Emerald Ash Borer problem, and what
kind of immense manpower is going into it. The original recipient was my
professor, but I'm going to share the content through this blog.

## An Invasive Insect
The insect I'm curious about was until 2002 unknown to the United States, and is notoriously invasive. It's not so unknown now, it's destruction is easily observable in the state of NY, and has resounding effects on many forests. This is of course the Emerald Ash Borer (Agrilus planipennis), an exotic insect species native to Russia, China, Mongolia, Taiwan, Japan, and Korea. I find the insect fascinating because it pertains to only one kind of tree, and that tree has been all but decimated by the insect. Moreover, the tree is a common element in many forest areas, especially that of the swampy outskirts of the Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT) campus. Since then the Emerald Ash Borer (EAB) has killed millions of trees. Accordingly there are some good questions to be answered: how is RIT trying to alleviate or solve the problem of the EAB, what are the economic effects of the EAB, and finally what will be the environmental effects of letting the EAB spread unchecked?

## More Than The Ash Trees
The problem in monetary terms seems to be more pertinent to everyone, as the EAB's effects are as virulent as a the flu in Winter. The borers don't usually kill the adult trees, but instead weaken it against other harmful influences. In younger and weaker trees however, the EAB often kills them. Further, to prevent the spread of the insect, there has been restrictions on the trade and use of Ash wood. This impedes growth in the market by limiting the sales and cost of dealing with Ash wood. Not only that, but the removal of dead and dying trees is no simple task. It requires millions of dollars of funding, and requires lots of man-power.

## A Scholarly Comradery
Many researchers and organizations have dedicated themselves to this problem, often coordinating with universities of government agencies to acquire funding or prior knowledge. At RIT professors Elizabeth Hane and Karl Korfmacher have spent time with Masters Students on topics including the Emerald Ash Borer, and will likely to lend explanations and answer questions. Their students have produced various scholarly works on the Emerald Ash Borer, and there is a plethora of material available from other Universities and organizations on the subject. A particular work, “An Assessment of worldview-2 imagery for the classification of a mixed deciduous forests”, sticks out as a useful work available from the RIT Wallace Library. I can easily find information on the RIT campus about the both the Emerald Ash Borer, and it's prey. I should be able to schedule interviews with researchers and professors on campus for reference, and of course their students.

## References
1. "Emerald Ash Borer (EAB)." Department of Environmental Conservation. New York State, Apr. 2013. Web. 13 Mar. 2014. <http://www.dec.ny.gov/animals/7253.html>
